CITATIONS.rst, before:


=======================
Projects that use SALib
=======================

Many projects now use the Global Sensitivity Analysis features provided by
SALib.  Here are a selection:

Software
--------

* `The City Energy Analyst <https://github.com/architecture-building-systems/CEAforArcGIS>`_
* `pynoddy <https://github.com/flohorovicic/pynoddy>`_
* `savvy <https://github.com/houghb/savvy>`_

Blogs
-----

* `Sensitivity Analyis in Python <http://www.perrygeo.com/sensitivity-analysis-in-python.html>`_
* `Sensitivity Analysis with SALib <http://keyboardscientist.weebly.com/blog/sensitivity-analysis-with-salib>`_
* `Running Sobol using SALib <https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2013/08/05/running-sobol-sensitivity-analysis-using-salib/>`_
* `Extensions of SALib for more complex sensitivity analyses <https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2014/02/11/extensions-of-salib-for-more-complex-sensitivity-analyses/>`_

Videos
------

* `PyData Presentation on SALib <https://youtu.be/gkR_lz5OptU>`_



If you would like to be added to this list, please submit a pull request,
or create an issue.

Many thanks for using SALib.

Commit message:

Fix for Python 2, added citation details

CITATIONS.rst, after:


=======================
Projects that use SALib
=======================

If you would like to use our software, please cite it using the following:

    Herman, J. and Usher, W. (2017) SALib: An open-source Python library for 
    sensitivity analysis. Journal of Open Source Software, 2(9). 
    doi:10.21105/joss.00097

If you use Bibtex, cite using the following entry:

    @article{Herman2017,
    doi = {10.21105/joss.00097},
    url = {https://doi.org/10.21105/joss.00097},
    year  = {2017},
    month = {jan},
    publisher = {The Open Journal},
    volume = {2},
    number = {9},
    author = {Jon Herman and Will Usher},
    title = {{SALib}: An open-source Python library for Sensitivity Analysis},
    journal = {The Journal of Open Source Software}
    }


Many projects now use the Global Sensitivity Analysis features provided by
SALib.  Here are a selection:

Software
--------

* `The City Energy Analyst <https://github.com/architecture-building-systems/CEAforArcGIS>`_
* `pynoddy <https://github.com/flohorovicic/pynoddy>`_
* `savvy <https://github.com/houghb/savvy>`_

Blogs
-----

* `Sensitivity Analyis in Python <http://www.perrygeo.com/sensitivity-analysis-in-python.html>`_
* `Sensitivity Analysis with SALib <http://keyboardscientist.weebly.com/blog/sensitivity-analysis-with-salib>`_
* `Running Sobol using SALib <https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2013/08/05/running-sobol-sensitivity-analysis-using-salib/>`_
* `Extensions of SALib for more complex sensitivity analyses <https://waterprogramming.wordpress.com/2014/02/11/extensions-of-salib-for-more-complex-sensitivity-analyses/>`_

Videos
------

* `PyData Presentation on SALib <https://youtu.be/gkR_lz5OptU>`_

If you would like to be added to this list, please submit a pull request,
or create an issue.

Many thanks for using SALib.
