README.rst, before:

Sensitivity Analysis Library (SALib)
------------------------------------

Python implementations of commonly used sensitivity analysis methods.
Useful in systems modeling to calculate the effects of model inputs or
exogenous factors on outputs of interest.

**Documentation:** `ReadTheDocs <http://salib.readthedocs.org>`__

**Requirements:** `NumPy <http://www.numpy.org/>`__,
`SciPy <http://www.scipy.org/>`__,
`matplotlib <http://matplotlib.org/>`__

**Installation:** ``pip install SALib`` or ``python setup.py install`` or ``conda install SALib``

**Build Status:** |Build Status| **Test Coverage:** |Coverage Status|

**SALib Paper:** |status|

``Herman, J. and Usher, W. (2017) SALib: An open-source Python library for sensitivity analysis.  Journal of Open Source Software, 2(9).``

**Methods included:** 

* Sobol Sensitivity Analysis (`Sobol 2001 <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378475400002706>`__,
  `Saltelli 2002 <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010465502002801>`__,
  `Saltelli et al. 2010 <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010465509003087>`__)

* Method of Morris, including groups and optimal trajectories (`Morris
  1991 <http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/00401706.1991.10484804>`__,
  `Campolongo et al. 2007 <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364815206002805>`__)

* Fourier Amplitude Sensitivity Test (FAST) (`Cukier et al. 1973 <http://scitation.aip.org/content/aip/journal/jcp/59/8/10.1063/1.1680571>`__,
  `Saltelli et al. 1999 <http://amstat.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/00401706.1999.10485594>`__)

* Random Balance Designs - Fourier Amplitude Sensitivity Test (RBD-FAST) (`Tarantola et al. 2006 <https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-01065897/file/Tarantola06RESS_HAL.pdf>`__,
  `Plischke 2010 <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ress.2009.11.005>`__, 
  `Tissot et al. 2012 <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ress.2012.06.010>`__) 

* Delta
  Moment-Independent Measure (`Borgonovo 2007 <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0951832006000883>`__,
  `Plischke et al. 2013 <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0377221712008995>`__)

* Derivative-based Global Sensitivity Measure (DGSM) (`Sobol and
  Kucherenko 2009 <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378475409000354>`__)

* Fractional Factorial Sensitivity Analysis 
  (`Saltelli et al. 2008 <http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/WileyTitle/productCd-0470059974.html>`__)

**Contributing:** see `here <CONTRIBUTING.md>`__

Quick Start
~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    from SALib.sample import saltelli
    from SALib.analyze import sobol
    from SALib.test_functions import Ishigami
    import numpy as np

    problem = {
      'num_vars': 3,
      'names': ['x1', 'x2', 'x3'],
      'bounds': [[-np.pi, np.pi]]*3
    }

    # Generate samples
    param_values = saltelli.sample(problem, 1000)

    # Run model (example)
    Y = Ishigami.evaluate(param_values)

    # Perform analysis
    Si = sobol.analyze(problem, Y, print_to_console=True)
    # Returns a dictionary with keys 'S1', 'S1_conf', 'ST', and 'ST_conf'
    # (first and total-order indices with bootstrap confidence intervals)

It's also possible to specify the parameter bounds in a file with 3
columns:

::

    # name lower_bound upper_bound
    P1 0.0 1.0
    P2 0.0 5.0
    ...etc.

Then the ``problem`` dictionary above can be created from the
``read_param_file`` function:

.. code:: python

    from SALib.util import read_param_file
    problem = read_param_file('/path/to/file.txt')
    # ... same as above

Lots of other options are included for parameter files, as well as a
command-line interface. See the `advanced
readme <README-advanced.md>`__.

Also check out the
`examples <https://github.com/SALib/SALib/tree/master/examples>`__ for a
full description of options for each method.

License
~~~~~~~

Copyright (C) 2018 Jon Herman, Will Usher, and others. Versions v0.5 and
later are released under the `MIT license <LICENSE.md>`__.

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/SALib/SALib.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/SALib/SALib
.. |Coverage Status| image:: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/SALib/SALib.svg
   :target: https://coveralls.io/r/SALib/SALib
.. |Code Issues| image:: https://www.quantifiedcode.com/api/v1/project/ed62e70f899e4ec8af4ea6b2212d4b30/badge.svg
   :target: https://www.quantifiedcode.com/app/project/ed62e70f899e4ec8af4ea6b2212d4b30
.. |status| image:: http://joss.theoj.org/papers/431262803744581c1d4b6a95892d3343/status.svg
   :target: http://joss.theoj.org/papers/431262803744581c1d4b6a95892d3343

Commit message:

Added note about dropping support for Python 2

README.rst, after:

Sensitivity Analysis Library (SALib)
------------------------------------

Python implementations of commonly used sensitivity analysis methods.
Useful in systems modeling to calculate the effects of model inputs or
exogenous factors on outputs of interest.

**Documentation:** `ReadTheDocs <http://salib.readthedocs.org>`__

**Requirements:** `NumPy <http://www.numpy.org/>`__,
`SciPy <http://www.scipy.org/>`__,
`matplotlib <http://matplotlib.org/>`__,
Python 3 (from SALib v1.2 onwards SALib does not officially support Python 2)

**Installation:** ``pip install SALib`` or ``python setup.py install`` or ``conda install SALib``

**Build Status:** |Build Status| **Test Coverage:** |Coverage Status|

**SALib Paper:** |status|

``Herman, J., Usher, W., (2017), SALib: An open-source Python library for Sensitivity Analysis, Journal of Open Source Software, 2(9), 97, doi:10.21105/joss.00097``

**Methods included:** 

* Sobol Sensitivity Analysis (`Sobol 2001 <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378475400002706>`__,
  `Saltelli 2002 <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010465502002801>`__,
  `Saltelli et al. 2010 <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010465509003087>`__)

* Method of Morris, including groups and optimal trajectories (`Morris
  1991 <http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/00401706.1991.10484804>`__,
  `Campolongo et al. 2007 <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364815206002805>`__)

* Fourier Amplitude Sensitivity Test (FAST) (`Cukier et al. 1973 <http://scitation.aip.org/content/aip/journal/jcp/59/8/10.1063/1.1680571>`__,
  `Saltelli et al. 1999 <http://amstat.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/00401706.1999.10485594>`__)

* Random Balance Designs - Fourier Amplitude Sensitivity Test (RBD-FAST) (`Tarantola et al. 2006 <https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-01065897/file/Tarantola06RESS_HAL.pdf>`__,
  `Plischke 2010 <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ress.2009.11.005>`__, 
  `Tissot et al. 2012 <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ress.2012.06.010>`__) 

* Delta
  Moment-Independent Measure (`Borgonovo 2007 <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0951832006000883>`__,
  `Plischke et al. 2013 <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0377221712008995>`__)

* Derivative-based Global Sensitivity Measure (DGSM) (`Sobol and
  Kucherenko 2009 <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378475409000354>`__)

* Fractional Factorial Sensitivity Analysis 
  (`Saltelli et al. 2008 <http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/WileyTitle/productCd-0470059974.html>`__)

**Contributing:** see `here <CONTRIBUTING.md>`__

Quick Start
~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: python

    from SALib.sample import saltelli
    from SALib.analyze import sobol
    from SALib.test_functions import Ishigami
    import numpy as np

    problem = {
      'num_vars': 3,
      'names': ['x1', 'x2', 'x3'],
      'bounds': [[-np.pi, np.pi]]*3
    }

    # Generate samples
    param_values = saltelli.sample(problem, 1000)

    # Run model (example)
    Y = Ishigami.evaluate(param_values)

    # Perform analysis
    Si = sobol.analyze(problem, Y, print_to_console=True)
    # Returns a dictionary with keys 'S1', 'S1_conf', 'ST', and 'ST_conf'
    # (first and total-order indices with bootstrap confidence intervals)

It's also possible to specify the parameter bounds in a file with 3
columns:

::

    # name lower_bound upper_bound
    P1 0.0 1.0
    P2 0.0 5.0
    ...etc.

Then the ``problem`` dictionary above can be created from the
``read_param_file`` function:

.. code:: python

    from SALib.util import read_param_file
    problem = read_param_file('/path/to/file.txt')
    # ... same as above

Lots of other options are included for parameter files, as well as a
command-line interface. See the `advanced
readme <README-advanced.md>`__.

Also check out the
`examples <https://github.com/SALib/SALib/tree/master/examples>`__ for a
full description of options for each method.

License
~~~~~~~

Copyright (C) 2012-2019 Jon Herman, Will Usher, and others. Versions v0.5 and
later are released under the `MIT license <LICENSE.md>`__.

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/SALib/SALib.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/SALib/SALib
.. |Coverage Status| image:: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/SALib/SALib.svg
   :target: https://coveralls.io/r/SALib/SALib
.. |Code Issues| image:: https://www.quantifiedcode.com/api/v1/project/ed62e70f899e4ec8af4ea6b2212d4b30/badge.svg
   :target: https://www.quantifiedcode.com/app/project/ed62e70f899e4ec8af4ea6b2212d4b30
.. |status| image:: http://joss.theoj.org/papers/431262803744581c1d4b6a95892d3343/status.svg
   :target: http://joss.theoj.org/papers/431262803744581c1d4b6a95892d3343
