docs/user_guide/advanced.rst, before:

==================
Advanced Examples
==================

Group sampling (Sobol and Morris methods only)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
It is sometimes useful to perform sensitivity analysis on groups of input variables to reduce the number of model runs required, when variables belong to the same component of a model, or there is some reason to believe that they should behave similarly.

Groups can be specified in two ways for the Sobol and Morris methods.

First, as a fourth column in the parameter file:

.. code:: python

    # name lower_bound upper_bound group_name
    P1 0.0 1.0 Group_1
    P2 0.0 5.0 Group_2
    P3 0.0 5.0 Group_2
    ...etc.

Or, as an additional key in the :code:`problem` dictionary:

.. code:: python

    problem = {
        'groups': ['Group_1', 'Group_2', 'Group_2'],
        'names': ['x1', 'x2', 'x3'],
        'num_vars': 3,
        'bounds': [[-3.14, 3.14], [-3.14, 3.14], [-3.14, 3.14]]
    }

:code:`groups` is a list of strings specifying the group name of each variable.
The rest of the code stays the same:

.. code:: python

    param_values = saltelli.sample(problem, 1024)
    Y = Ishigami.evaluate(param_values)
    Si = sobol.analyze(problem, Y, print_to_console=True)


But the output is printed by group:

::

                ST   ST_conf
    Group_1  0.555309  0.084058
    Group_2  0.684332  0.057449
                S1   S1_conf
    Group_1  0.316696  0.056797
    Group_2  0.456497  0.079049
                            S2   S2_conf
    (Group_1, Group_2)  0.238909  0.127195

    |            ST   ST_conf
    | Group_1  0.555309  0.084058
    | Group_2  0.684332  0.057449
    |             S1   S1_conf
    | Group_1  0.316696  0.056797
    | Group_2  0.456497  0.079049
    |                         S2   S2_conf
    | (Group_1, Group_2)  0.238909  0.127195


The output can then be converted to a Pandas DataFrame for further analysis.

.. code:: python

    total_Si, first_Si, second_Si = Si.to_df()


Generating alternate distributions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In :ref:`basics`, we generated a uniform sample of parameter space.

.. code:: python

    from SALib.sample import saltelli
    from SALib.analyze import sobol
    from SALib.test_functions import Ishigami
    import numpy as np

    problem = {
        'num_vars': 3,
        'names': ['x1', 'x2', 'x3'],
        'bounds': [[-3.14159265359, 3.14159265359],
                   [-3.14159265359, 3.14159265359],
                   [-3.14159265359, 3.14159265359]]
    }

    param_values = saltelli.sample(problem, 1024)

SALib is also capable of generating alternate sampling distributions by
specifying a :code:`dists` entry in the :code:`problem` specification.

As implied in the basic example, a uniform distribution is the default.

When an entry for :code:`dists` is not 'unif', the :code:`bounds` entry does not indicate
parameter bounds but sample-specific metadata.

:code:`bounds` definitions for available distributions:

* unif: uniform distribution
    e.g. :code:`[-np.pi, np.pi]` defines the lower and upper bounds
* logunif: logarithmic uniform with lower and upper bounds
* triang: triangular with lower and upper bounds, as well as
     location of peak
     The location of peak is in percentage of width
     e.g. :code:`[1.0, 3.0, 0.5]` indicates 1.0 to 3.0 with a peak at 2.0

     A soon-to-be deprecated two-value format assumes the lower bound to be 0
     e.g. :code:`[3, 0.5]` assumes 0 to 3, with a peak at 1.5
* norm: normal distribution with mean and standard deviation
* truncnorm: truncated normal distribution with lower and upper bounds, mean and standard deviation
    e.g. :code:`[-3, 3, 0, 1]` indicates a lower bound of -3,
    upper bound of 3, mean 0 and standard deviation of 1.
* lognorm: lognormal with ln-space mean and standard deviation


An example specification is shown below:

.. code:: python

    problem = {
        'names': ['x1', 'x2', 'x3'],
        'num_vars': 3,
        'bounds': [[-np.pi, np.pi], [1.0, 0.2], [3, 0.5]],
        'groups': ['G1', 'G2', 'G1'],
        'dists': ['unif', 'lognorm', 'triang']
    }

Commit message:

Add support for Weibull distribution sampling.

docs/user_guide/advanced.rst, after:

==================
Advanced Examples
==================

Group sampling (Sobol and Morris methods only)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
It is sometimes useful to perform sensitivity analysis on groups of input variables to reduce the number of model runs required, when variables belong to the same component of a model, or there is some reason to believe that they should behave similarly.

Groups can be specified in two ways for the Sobol and Morris methods.

First, as a fourth column in the parameter file:

.. code:: python

    # name lower_bound upper_bound group_name
    P1 0.0 1.0 Group_1
    P2 0.0 5.0 Group_2
    P3 0.0 5.0 Group_2
    ...etc.

Or, as an additional key in the :code:`problem` dictionary:

.. code:: python

    problem = {
        'groups': ['Group_1', 'Group_2', 'Group_2'],
        'names': ['x1', 'x2', 'x3'],
        'num_vars': 3,
        'bounds': [[-3.14, 3.14], [-3.14, 3.14], [-3.14, 3.14]]
    }

:code:`groups` is a list of strings specifying the group name of each variable.
The rest of the code stays the same:

.. code:: python

    param_values = saltelli.sample(problem, 1024)
    Y = Ishigami.evaluate(param_values)
    Si = sobol.analyze(problem, Y, print_to_console=True)


But the output is printed by group:

::

                ST   ST_conf
    Group_1  0.555309  0.084058
    Group_2  0.684332  0.057449
                S1   S1_conf
    Group_1  0.316696  0.056797
    Group_2  0.456497  0.079049
                            S2   S2_conf
    (Group_1, Group_2)  0.238909  0.127195

    |            ST   ST_conf
    | Group_1  0.555309  0.084058
    | Group_2  0.684332  0.057449
    |             S1   S1_conf
    | Group_1  0.316696  0.056797
    | Group_2  0.456497  0.079049
    |                         S2   S2_conf
    | (Group_1, Group_2)  0.238909  0.127195


The output can then be converted to a Pandas DataFrame for further analysis.

.. code:: python

    total_Si, first_Si, second_Si = Si.to_df()


Generating alternate distributions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In :ref:`basics`, we generated a uniform sample of parameter space.

.. code:: python

    from SALib.sample import saltelli
    from SALib.analyze import sobol
    from SALib.test_functions import Ishigami
    import numpy as np

    problem = {
        'num_vars': 3,
        'names': ['x1', 'x2', 'x3'],
        'bounds': [[-3.14159265359, 3.14159265359],
                   [-3.14159265359, 3.14159265359],
                   [-3.14159265359, 3.14159265359]]
    }

    param_values = saltelli.sample(problem, 1024)

SALib is also capable of generating alternate sampling distributions by
specifying a :code:`dists` entry in the :code:`problem` specification.

As implied in the basic example, a uniform distribution is the default.

When an entry for :code:`dists` is not 'unif', the :code:`bounds` entry does not indicate
parameter bounds but sample-specific metadata.

:code:`bounds` definitions for available distributions:

* unif: uniform distribution
    e.g. :code:`[-np.pi, np.pi]` defines the lower and upper bounds
* logunif: logarithmic uniform with lower and upper bounds
* triang: triangular with lower and upper bounds, as well as
     location of peak
     The location of peak is in percentage of width
     e.g. :code:`[1.0, 3.0, 0.5]` indicates 1.0 to 3.0 with a peak at 2.0

     A soon-to-be deprecated two-value format assumes the lower bound to be 0
     e.g. :code:`[3, 0.5]` assumes 0 to 3, with a peak at 1.5
* norm: normal distribution with mean and standard deviation
* truncnorm: truncated normal distribution with lower and upper bounds, mean and standard deviation
    e.g. :code:`[-3, 3, 0, 1]` indicates a lower bound of -3,
    upper bound of 3, mean 0 and standard deviation of 1.
* lognorm: lognormal with ln-space mean and standard deviation
* weibull: weibull distribution with shape, scale, and optional location parameters.
    e.g. :code:`[1.5, 1.0, 5.0]` indicates a shape (k) of 1.5, scale (lambda) of 1.0, and a location of 5.0.
    If only two values are provided, the location is assumed to be 0.
    e.g. :code:`[1.5, 1.0]` assumes a location of 0.


An example specification is shown below:

.. code:: python

    problem = {
        'names': ['x1', 'x2', 'x3'],
        'num_vars': 3,
        'bounds': [[-np.pi, np.pi], [1.0, 0.2], [3, 0.5]],
        'groups': ['G1', 'G2', 'G1'],
        'dists': ['unif', 'lognorm', 'triang']
    }
